THE PITCH:

A World War I dogfight arcade simulation with 8-bit pixelated sprites and particle effects.  Sky is the only thing that is not pixelated and is instead a gradient that changes with time of day and weather effects.

RPG elements where you can upgrade your plane based on how many kills you get and targets of opertunity you destory.

You only get upgrades when you land safely back at the airodrome.  You buy upgrades based on how many points you've racked up from shooting down enemy combatants and targets of opertunity.


Upgradable elements of the plane are Speed, Power, Agility and Durability, Firepower and bombs.

The sky will be unbounded but you will black out or lose engine power if you get too height.

To get a sense of movement there will be a gradient for the sky that goes from a light blue at ground level to a deep dark at high altitudes as well as cloud sprites.


Game will have a 1 player mode where to progressTo get a sense of movement there will be a gradient for the sky that goes from a light blue at ground level to a deep dark at high altitudes as well as cloud sprites.

Multiplayer might be allowed but will not earn upgrades for your aircraft.


After taking out a wave of fighters there will be boss fights.

Gameplay:
The flight is all in two dimentions.  You have throttle for accelerating, elevator to change your pitch and ailerons to roll.  Aircraft physics is losely based on real physics.  To lift off you either need the thrust of your engines to overcome gravity or the lift generated by your wings from movement.

Tactics will include hiding in the cloud layer and diving out when there is a target of opertunity.  You can also drop bombs to take out ground targets.  The bombs will drop realisticaly which would make targets harder to hit if you drop your bomb from a  high hight.  Dive bombing is a viable tactic in that it's easier to aim and also you can use the gained momentum to get in and out of harms way quickly.



THE ENEMIES:
Biplane
Triplane
Bomber
Air baloons
Zeplin

Biplane:
Biplanes charge you on site, use minimal tactics and manuver very slowly.
Triplane charge you on site but manuver more quickly.
Bomber tryies to fly past you and bomb the airodrome which can damage your other aircraft.
Air baloons are passive recon but will report your location and send in reenforcements if they spot you.
Zeplin is an airship that takes a pounding and shoots back at you with guns and launches aircraft at you.

The Bosses:
Other german aces of WWI
Red Baron 

Story:
You're Canadian fighter pilot rookie, Lewis.  Your the son of a cow farmer from the country.  Your brother was conscripted into the army and died in a bayonette charge.  You where to young to join but you lied about your age and when given the opertunity joined the air core.  You find out that your brother was not killed but in a POW camp that you can land and and resque him from.


Lewis has a younger brother James who is too young to fight but lies about his age and is sent to the trenches.

During one of the charges his brother was killed.  He then vows to evenge his brothers death by killing the Red Baron.

Location:
Air war over WWI France.  Flat lands with mostly fields of farm land and roads that have ditches, bushes and trenches.

Graphics:
All sprites would have an 8-bit pixelated look to them.
Location being the skys over france, the ground wouuld be completly flat with some bushes to offer scale and movement.

Have day and night light cycle with sky gradient that changes.
G

The sky would consist of a gradient and cloud sprites that have paralax movement.

There will be cloud layers to hide in for attacks

There will be thunderstorm clouds that can strike lightning causing damage to you plane.



Damage to aircraft will be displayed using smoke partical effects and holes appearing in the airframe.  Possibly parts falling off.  Flames sprites for damage that is progressing on it's own.

